README.md, before:

# WPLib Box

**The EASIEST way to get a local WordPress development environment**

## Release Candidate - NEW! 

We have a candiate for our next release available for testing! 

If you a familiar with WPLib Box [please help us test](#instructions-for-0160-rc). 


## Links
 - [Quick Start](http://wplib.github.io/wplib-box/#quickstart)
 - [Documentation](http://wplib.github.io/wplib-box/)
 - [Interactive Help](wplib.slack.com) on [Slack](https://slackhq.com) <em>(Join [here](https://slackpass.io/wplib))</em>

## Instructions for 0.16.0-rc 

The following should work **for Mac users**: 

```
cd ~/Sites
git clone https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box.git 0.16.0-rc
cd 0.16.0-rc
git checkout 0.16.0-rc
vagrant up
open "wplib.box"
```
For **Windows** or **Linux** users you will probably need use a different directory on the first `cd` command. Pick the parent directory where you typically put your website projects.

### Troubleshooting, Questions and Feedback/Bug Reports
- **If your browser times out** trying to load http://wplib.box check your `/env/hosts` file to see if you have more than one IP address entry mapped to the `wplib.box` domain and its various subdomains.
- **If you have questions** please post them in the `#box` channel on our [Slack account](wplib.slack.com) <em>(join [here](https://slackpass.io/wplib).)</em>
- **If you find bugs or have suggestions** of any type, please [**create an issue on Github**](https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box/issues/new) so we can keep track of your feedback.

Commit message:

Added "How to Test" section

README.md, after:

# WPLib Box

**The EASIEST way to get a local WordPress development environment**

## Release Candidate - NEW! 

We have a candiate for our next release available for testing! 

If you a familiar with WPLib Box [please help us test](#instructions-for-0160-rc). 


## Links
 - [Quick Start](http://wplib.github.io/wplib-box/#quickstart)
 - [Documentation](http://wplib.github.io/wplib-box/)
 - [Interactive Help](wplib.slack.com) on [Slack](https://slackhq.com) <em>(Join [here](https://slackpass.io/wplib))</em>

## Instructions for getting 0.16.0-rc 

The following should work **for Mac users**: 

```
cd ~/Sites
git clone https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box.git 0.16.0-rc
cd 0.16.0-rc
git checkout 0.16.0-rc
vagrant up
open "wplib.box"
```
For **Windows** or **Linux** users you will probably need use a different directory on the first `cd` command. Pick the parent directory where you typically put your website projects.

## How to Test
- **To help us QA our changes**, please review the [issues for the `0.16.0` milestone](https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box/milestone/24) and look for any that are marked _"Ready for QA"_ as we think those tickets should all be working.  If we missed something, please add comments to the respective issue.
- **To review it for your own use-cases** go ahead and set up your own project to work with it and see if it meets your needs, if you struggle to understand anything, if anything does not work for you, or if you have an idea for how it can become better please [add an issue]((https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box/issues/new).


## Troubleshooting, Questions and Feedback/Bug Reports
- **If your browser times out** trying to load http://wplib.box check your `/env/hosts` file to see if you have more than one IP address entry mapped to the `wplib.box` domain and its various subdomains.
- **If you have questions** please post them in the `#box` channel on our [Slack account](wplib.slack.com) <em>(join [here](https://slackpass.io/wplib).)</em>
- **If you find bugs or have suggestions** of any type, please [**create an issue on Github**](https://github.com/wplib/wplib-box/issues/new) so we can keep track of your feedback.
